The Swift Infusion of Blessings
A Lament and Prayer to Invoke the Wisdom Mind of Khenchen Vāgindra on the Occasion of His Passing
into the Great Peace of the Dharmadhātu
by Jamyang Khyentse Chökyi Lodrö

Namo guru!
zö né namdrol changchub chok nyé kyang
Long ago you found perfect freedom and awakening,
duljé dro la lhakpar tuk tsewé
Yet still out of exceptional love for beings to be trained
geweshé kyi nampar trulpa yi
You magically appear in the form of a spiritual friend
ten drö dön chen dzé la solwa deb
And greatly benefit the teachings and beings—to you I pray.

gyal kün tutob chikdü sangwé dak
Lord of Secrets, embodiment of all the buddhas’ power and strength,
nyikdü ngurmik changwé zuk su gyur
In the guise of a saffron-robed monk for these degenerate times,
sumden dor dzin jewé tsuk gi gyen
An adornment on the crown of myriad vajra holders of the triple vows—
ngawang samten lodrö la solwa deb
Ngawang Samten Lodrö, to you I pray.

dü dré wangpo tsarpa chöjé yi
Entirely without equal, you raised aloft in a hundred directions
zabsang nyengyü tenpé gyaltsen ni
The victory banner of the teachings of the profound, secret oral transmission1
chok gyar dreng la drenda künpang pa
From Tsarpa, Lord of Dharma and master of the enemy of time2—
khamtön sangye gyatsor solwa deb
Khamtön Sangye Gyatso, to you I pray.

tutob nüpé shyuk ché barwa yi
With fiery tongues of power, strength and capacity
marung jungpö tsok nam talwar lak
You utterly incinerate the hosts of unruly spirits,
ten drö pungnyen chenpo rangjungwa
Naturally arisen great defender of teachings and beings,
khyabdak palden lamar solwa deb
All-pervasive lord, glorious guru, to you I pray.

kyilkhor gyatsö depön lama jé
Precious guru, chief of oceanic maṇḍalas,
khyen nü tsewa jampal pawo dang
You are none other than the heroic Mañjuśrī,
tadé ma chi dorjé ku chok la
Wise, powerful and caring in your supreme vajra form
kyechi zukngu shyar yang ma chi kyang
That could never undergo birth or death.

tak dzin dokpé nyenpor zuk kyi kü
Yet, as a means to counteract our impressions of endurance,
tröpa ying su timpar tenpé tsé
You have displayed the absorption of form into basic space.
gönmé dak ni marik münpar khyam
And now, protectorless, I wander alone in delusion’s darkness.
tukjé ngepar zik shik lama khyen
Look upon me with compassion, O guru: care for me!

bu yi dukngal pa yi ma sel na
When a father does not aid a child in distress,
nyepa sel jé kyab shyen su shyik tsol
Who else will assist in the elimination of faults?
kyema kyi hü lama dorjé chang
Alas and alack! O guru Vajradhara,
nying né drenpé shuk kyi solwa deb
From the depths of my heart, I pray to you.

chöying kha la trulpé trinpung trik
Let your cloud-like emanations gather in the sky of dharmadhātu
sangwa sum gyi jinlab druchar pob
And rain down the blessings of your secret body, speech and mind.
dak gyü sang sum dorjér minpar dzö
Through this, may my own character ripen as the three secrets
lama ku shyi dré zang ngödrub tsol
And bring forth the fine crop of accomplishing the guru’s four kāyas.

gang dul trulpa pakyé rab tön né
Perfectly reveal infinite emanations according to disciples’ needs,
ten dang drowé dön nyi lab chen drub
To accomplish vast waves of activity on behalf of the teachings and beings.
dak sok lob bang damtsik nampar dak
May I and all your other subjects perfectly maintain purest samaya
lama chok dang namyang mindral shok
And may we never ever part from you, the most sublime of gurus.

Inspired by intense faith and devotion, this prayer was made by Jamyang Lodrö Gyatso, who holds
the name of an activity emanation of Khyentse and was the lowliest of this protector’s
disciples. Siddhirastu! Maṅgalam.

| Translated by Adam Pearcey with the generous support of the Khyentse Foundation and Tertön
Sogyal Trust, 2020.

Source: 'Jam dbyangs chos kyi blo gros. "mkhan chen wa gin+d+ra chos dbyings zhi ba chen por
gzhol skabs thugs dam bskul ba'i gsol 'debs/" in ’Jam dbyangs chos kyi blo gros kyi gsung
’bum. 12 vols. Bir: Khyentse Labrang, 2012. W1KG12986 Vol. 3: 601–602
↑ This verse incorporates syllables from Ngawang Lodrö Samten’s full name, Ngawang Samten Lodrö
Nyengyü Tenpai Gyaltsen, which translates (roughly) as Lord of Speech, Intellect Born
of Meditation, Victory Banner of the Teachings of the Oral Transmission.↑ I.e., Losal Gyatso
(1502–1566/67)