The Radiant Treasure of Blessings
A Guru Yoga of the Great Vajradhara Ngawang Samten Lodrö
by Jamyang Khyentse Chökyi Lodrö

At the feet of the guru, I pay homage.

As someone matured through empowerment and with pure faith and samaya commitments, exert yourself
in the following practice, which has three parts.
1. Refuge and Bodhicitta
dak dang drowa khanyam semchen nam
I and all beings who are as infinite as space
changchub nyingpö bardu kyab su chi
Take refuge until we reach the essence of awakening.
ngendro sipé tso lé drolwé chir
In order to bring liberation from the ocean of existence and the lower realms,
zabmo lama drubpar semkyé do
I generate the intention to accomplish profound guru practice.
Repeat this as many times as possible.
2. The Main Part
chö kün ösal tongpé ngang nyi lé
Out of the empty luminous nature of all phenomena,
shintu gyepé norbü shyalmé khang
Arises the jewelled palace, immense in size,
rabjam chötrin gyatso talepé
And amidst an infinite ocean of offering clouds,
rang dün namkhar sengtri pé dé teng
In the sky before me, upon a lion throne, lotus and moon,
tsawé lama ngawang samten ni
Is my root guru Ngawang Samten Lodrö
lodrö yeshe kuchen nyinmor jé
In wisdom form, resplendent as the sun.
shyalré gyé shing chen nyi zim bü tsul
His face is broad and his eyes are half-closed.
rabjung cheden chak yé chok jin dang
He wears monastic robes and his right hand is in the gesture of supreme giving,
yönpé nyamshyak gö jung norbu nam
His left, in the gesture of equanimity, holds a wish-granting jewel.
ziji tsungmé kyab kündüpar sal
Unparalleled in splendour, he embodies all sources of refuge.
Recite the long or short “gang drinma” (“You are the one whose kindness…”) and:
mang tö khedrub gyatsö jesu zung
Guided by an ocean of erudite and accomplished scholars,
samten tingdzin dampé lodrö chen
You possess the noble intellect born of meditative absorption,
khé tsul sum gyi gyalten sal dzé gang
And through the three ways of the learned you illuminate the Buddha’s teachings—
tso shyé getsen taktu bar gyur chik
May you continue to blaze with signs of positivity.
Recite these blessed words of Loter Wangpo, as well as:
sangdak dorjé jik dzé lasokpé
All-pervasive Vajra-holder embodying the power and strength
tutob chikdü khyabdak dorjé dzin
Of the Lord of Secrets, Vajrabhairava and the rest,
khé dang drubpé wangchuk chö kyi jer
Learned and accomplished master, Dharma sovereign,
nying né soldeb choktün ngödrub tsol
I pray to you wholeheartedly: grant supreme and ordinary attainments!
Repeat this as many times as possible. When practising more elaborately recite the two-part
prayer below as well.
om ah guru benza dhara sarva siddhi hung
oṃ āḥ guru vajradhara sarva siddhi hūṃ
Recite this as many times as possible.
3. Receiving Empowerment
kyabné kündü palden lama yi
Glorious guru who embodies every source of refuge,
dak sok dro la tsewé rab gong né
Consider me and all others with your loving care,
jinlab chok gi ngödrub tsal du sol
And grant us blessings and the supreme attainment.
lhenkyé yeshe tokpar jingyi lob
Inspire us to realize co-emergent primordial wisdom.
lamé ku yi né sum né
From the three centres of the guru’s form,
özer kar mar ting sum trö
Emanate rays of white, red and blue light,
né sum rim dang chikchar tim
Which dissolve into my three centres, gradually then all at once.
wang shyi tokpa gyü la kyé
Realization of the four empowerments arises in my mindstream.
lama ö shyu rang la tim
Then the guru melts into light and dissolves into me.
sem kyi chönyi nyukmé shi
The nature of mind, its genuine condition,
tong dang dechen miché ching
Is indivisible emptiness and great bliss,
natsok tsalnang tamché kün
And all its manifold expressions
lamé sang sum rolpar ta
I recognize as the display of the guru’s three secrets.
When arising from the session seal the practice with “In all my lives…” (kyewa küntu…) and other
prayers of dedication and aspiration.

Written by Jamyang Chökyi Lodrö who imbibed the nectar of this mighty lord and Vajradhara’s
speech. May it be blessed with significance!

| Translated by Adam Pearcey with the generous support of the Khyentse Foundation and Tertön
Sogyal Trust, 2020.

Source: 'Jam dbyangs chos kyi blo gros. "rdo rje 'dzin pa chen po ngag dbang bsam gtan blo gros
kyi bla ma'i rnal 'byor byin rlabs snang gter/" in ’Jam dbyangs chos kyi blo gros kyi
gsung ’bum. 12 vols. Bir: Khyentse Labrang, 2012. W1KG12986 Vol. 4: 279–280